hi welcome to another edition of cool
training videos today we're going to
learn how to use Maine Maine is an
acronym for multi arcade machine
emulator what this can do is it can
angulate multiple arcade machines what
does that mean for us that we can play
all those coin table games that we
wanted to in the 80s but didn't have the
change for let me show you how this
works now I'm going to go to Maine
dotnet at first this is where the
original release is tell us a little
history here about the release if you
want to check it out and I'm going to go
to the main downloads area now this is a
command line version and what that means
is I have to go into Doss and load my
roms through Dawson's a little bit more
difficult maybe to use now there are
other ports or front ends that you can
use that are little bit easier to use
now this version is my favorite main 32
but there are lots of versions and
notice that a lot of these are for
different platforms some of these are
even for other things like a dreamcast
or old amiga or almost anything even
handheld devices like a sony ericsson
cell phone so MAME has been ported to a
lot of different devices and there are a
lot of different front ends one of my
other favorite front ends is 3d arcade
where you can actually build your own
three-dimensional arcade you can
download the little artworks for the
different ones and you can walk around
there in 3d and you hear the sounds of
the arcade it's very nice you walk up to
it you double-click on the game you want
to play and it loads it through main
we're going to use main 32 which is my
favorite distribution or front-end what
this does is it basically sits on top of
main the command line and it acts as a
graphic user interface so here's the
download a little warning about the
download you have to register with game
spy or file planet
you may already have a log in there to
actually download it you may try doing
some searches on the internet maybe to
find a different download location if
you don't want to sign up for those
services they are free sometimes you
have to wait in line so maybe a little
Google
on that to get it a little bit quicker I
already have it downloaded right here is
the file and I've unzipped it to this
folder now what I'm going to do is name
this folder something better like main
32 right more appropriate here than the
just the version looks all right inside
the folder you see are some different
folders in here along with the
executable binary that we need that will
help us run things from the command line
now I want to say some about these
folders there's a folder like artwork
and cabinets and flyers and things like
samples what this is is you can download
the different artwork that used to be on
the side of on the side of the arcade
machine and when you're browsing through
your through your different Rob's you
can show the artwork for that particular
for that particular K game they even
know what the cabinet style was because
some some games have different contests
different styles so a lot of different
folders in here but the really one we
want to concentrate on is the roms
folder so I'm going to go into the roms
folder and now I've got a Google search
on Google search for main roms and I
came up with the number one result was a
ROM site where you could type in a
search for just about any run you'll get
multiple selections some for different
things maybe there's another emulator
maybe that emulates old hardware like an
old Atari 2600 so watch out for that you
get the main version of the game you can
download that file and keep it as a zip
file so here I have an old game Galaga
and I'm going to stick it into my roms
folder and then I'm going to launch my
name 32 now main 32 is going to show a
big list of games here so even though I
if I go here and I go to the Galaga
section I don't show really any gal
against that that are there that's
because I haven't audited my roms yet so
I'm going to go to file on it all games
now this may take a second so
all right we've got an error but that's
okay it may or may not affect our
gameplay it does say one correct so that
should play if I look at my list here
yet I see that one of the gala ghosts so
something like up there's a lot of
different Gallagher's here notice that
so I may need a different ROM to play
different ones one of my favorite is the
fast shoot now I'm going to close this
which means now that I can play that
Galaga rum so I'm going to jump to that
Galaga rum and I'm going to go ahead and
double click it and start it press any
key
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
play I'm going to go to use a the tilde
key for the volume so if I need to turn
up and down the volume that's your tilde
key upper left hand corner keyboard the
tab key this is the most important
brings up all your inputs so you can pay
and put your general inputs which
usually be defaulted for every game or
your input this game so I'm going to
input this game and I can go down here
and tell it which is going to be my
right my left player one down player one
button one player one button two so
right now these are left up downs or set
so what you do is you hit enter and then
you hit your key and you wait a second
because it takes a second for it to come
in sometimes and you can do your so I'm
going to set my keys here up and button
one a business control then - what's
window key can't use a window key
and I'll have to set that to shift for
salt all right now I don't change the
default for our player one start is one
and the coin in is five and six seven
and eight
so basically there's one two three and
four players start five six seven and
eight
is the is the starts for those players
so like if you're playing gauntlet or
something you have your four different
coin slots for the different players
that are involving yes you can play lots
of different players so let's give this
a try to put some coins in and I'm gonna
hit one to one player start and
I put a lot of coins in boy imagine what
that would cost me today I can't find
these games anymore anyway if you can
find these games boy I think I'd still
like to play it in a stand-up version
there we go
so these will keep track all your high
scores and everything this is a great
great piece of software alright guys so
I got you guys started and you know what
to do from here have fun use the MAME 32
thanks for enjoying the cool training
video see you next time
[Music]